# assignQualitative research: Social encounters make people reevaluate their environment. We may try to make sense of an unpleasant public interaction, for example (i.e., we ask how and why things happened as they did). Humans are beginner researchers who evaluate and forecast their social surroundings. Sociological study and theory cover an unlimited number of areas. Others may be focused with social justice issues (e.g., "How can we end all the violence in the world?"). We may care about personal and global issues. Everyone wants to comprehend and explain everyday events, regardless of the question. This innate interest is the core of social science study, which aims to better understand or explain why or how people behave. This definition stresses research's rediscovery process. Research essentially means'renewed search' or're-examination.' Most people don't analyze their social environment formally. Social scientists study human behavior and environment. How should social science research be done? What criteria guide our questions and where do we find answers? Is it acceptable to assume that Joe doesn't return his girlfriend's calls because of the moon or planets? Perhaps. What's deemed a legitimate investigation depends on the investigator's discipline. An astrologer would find the constellations' arrangement highly handy. Astrology doesn't fit the normal norms of scientific study, which include logically correlating empirical findings with explanations. Planetary movements causing human behavior raises several questions. Abnormal psychology may explain Joe's rudeness as an incapacity to empathize with others. The questions we ask about our social surroundings and how we answer them may depend on our discipline. This book focuses on sociology and its practitioners' qualitative methodologies. First chapter introduces sociology. We then examine positivism, constructionism, and social investigations. This chapter's final section compares quantitative and qualitative techniques. Sociology? Sociology empirically appreciates human life's complexity. This definition includes the concepts of science (systematic observations and logical explanations) and the complexity of ordinary experience, which is not self-evident and straightforward for sociologists. Sociology reveals "the odd in the familiar" and "places personality in social context" (Macionis 2001: 2–5). Sociologists may ask why 18-year-olds in the U.S. can be drafted, run for office, and vote, but not drink alcohol until 21. Seeing the weird in the familiar means rethinking rules that trust 18-year-olds with guns but ban them from holding or drinking alcohol. Durkheim's (1966) classic study of suicide shows how sociologists contextualize individual acts. Durkheim's brilliant study of suicide, a supposedly psychiatric occurrence, demonstrated that social factors like marital status and religion assist predict the rate. SAGE Visit http://www.sagepub.com for SAGE Publications. Methods SAGE 2/10 What is qualitative research? suicidal Sociology's focus can also be defined. Sociology is "the systematic study of human society" (Macionis, 2001: 1), yet this definition is flawed in two ways. First, recognizing that sociologists study society doesn't define the field. SThis section describes these approaches and their impact on qualitative methodology. Constructionism vs. positivism Sociologists analyze and display reality to comprehend and report on people's behavior. This requires convincingly explaining what was observed and its meaning. In your readings, you may have noted that two sociologists examining the same topic may reach different findings or present contradictory reports. One research of prostitution may emphasize occupational and client-management skills (Heyl 1977), while another explains how incest sufferers are more likely to become prostitutes (Pines and Silbert 1983). Which study is accurate? Use a moral compass to determine which strategy is more socially responsible and consequently more accurate. Morality as an evaluation criterion blocks off other interests. Moral positions don't require evidence. A solely moral aim is contradictory to inquiry, which entails revising what we know. Instead of measuring accuracy, we could say the two techniques reflect different realities. Two truths, from two theoretical perspectives, serve different ends. Let's look at two philosophical perspectives that may have influenced prostitution studies. Both positivism and constructionism deal with reality and how it should be investigated. The average person accepts reality. We know what's real in everyday life and don't doubt it. One sociologist labeled this taken-for-granted view of reality the 'natural attitude' (Schutz 1967), or a manner of perceiving the social environment based on common sense or what everyone intuitively knows and can agree on. Positivistic sociology is founded on common sense or self-evident truths that reflect physical laws of nature, according to Filmer et al. (1973) and Garfinkel (1967).Bill would only be interested in empirical observations for this project. As a professional observer who delivers findings in a factual tone, he believes his research is free from bias as long as he follows particular processes. Bill's attempt to foresee prostitution's causes may have left unsolved concerns. How can people become prostitutes? Do prostitutes feel guilty? Are these crimes universal, or do they differ culturally and situationally? Can we trust Bill's claims of neutrality? Can anyone write and think objectively? Bill will certainly address these problems by fine-tuning his measurement techniques (e.g., surveys and variables) to assure accurate results, but for many sociologists, this is not enough. They see positivistic responses to how we know what we know (epistemology) as theoretically vacuous and have resorted to constructionism for more analytically sound explanations. As the name suggests, constructionists are concerned with how human interaction creates social reality. As Schwandt puts it, constructionists think that humans ‘construct or make' knowledge (2000: 197). Constructionism spans a wide range of sociological approaches. In some circles,'symbolic interactionism' or 'interpretivism' are used to allude to constructionism. 'Postmodernism' may be a more familiar idiom (for a detailed discussion see Lincoln and Guba 2000; Schwandt 2000). Differences between these schools of thought and the meaning of their names are not immediately relevant. As an alternative to positivism, constructionism claims that understanding of social reality is subjective, situationally and culturally flexible, and ideologically conscious. Let's use prostitution to explain these principles. First, examining this problem in a constructionist framework demands attention to subjective viewpoints. We must consider how respondents interpret their own experiences. Constructionists may integrate personal feelings in the analysis, rather than repressing them. Subjective interpretations aren't a source of bias in a constructionist paradigm; they're a piece of the empirical puzzle that helps us understand how people 'achieve' social reality (Garfinkel 1967). Unlike positivism, this approach focuses on 'how' prostitution is socially created. Constructionists are more concerned in the social world's activities or practices than its causes (Gubrium and Holstein 1997a). Second, in the case of prostitution, constructionists would look at how the meaning and practical repercussions of having sex for things of value vary by situation or society. Should wives who use sex to obtain financial power be considered prostitutes? How are they not recognized as sex workers? Prostitution in other countries? Why is sex for money legal in some cultures? Such inquiries steer the study enterprise away from finding universal and permanent reasons of this behavior. A constructionist researcher would analyze how assumed prostitute knowledge coincides or contradicts with study findings to promote one ideological perspective over another. If the researcher is a feminist, she may ask if the study helps oppressed women. Or will the work convince the public that prostitution is a victimless crime that policymakers should ignore? Could the research results be used to argue that society is not to blame for homeless women who sell their bodies? The emphasis on how reality is constructed exposes itself to political criticism of all aspects of research. Positivists consider the social world as a set of facts to be found and described objectively and neutrally. I used prostitution to illustrate constructionism and positivism, but the distinctions apply to less sensational topics as well. A researcher examining 'fun' at a theme park could use positivist or constructionist methods. As a positive thinker, she could wonder why people visit theme parks. She may ask if they suffer from stress and visit the park for relief. Her findings may conclude that amusement parks and roller coasters reduce mental strain. A constructionist would question, "What's fun?" How can individuals make riding a roller coaster 'fun'? Beth A. Quinn's (2002) article on 43 office workers provides a constructionist study of 'fun.' Quinn shows how ogling women can be misinterpreted. One respondent explains this ritual: When a bunch of males goes to a pub or nightclub and tries to appear manly... Some of us found it humorous when a woman walked by and a guy said, 'I can have her.' [pause] Yes, we'll see it. [laugh] (392, Quinn) Quinn says that by labeling this behavior as 'fun,' men disregard alternative implications, such as how it socializes males into masculine roles and objectsifies women. Fun is not an inherently meaningful social category, rather its meaning is formed via social interactions. Positivism and constructionism have many similarities despite their differences. Both perspectives are empirically grounded, requiring close interaction with the social environment for sociological research. Social scientists, constructionists, and positivists base their reports on methodical, empirical social observations, unlike philosophers. Both perspectives provide useful information, depending on the task. If a consumer watchdog group commissioned the theme park study, you might mix positivist and constructionist concerns. This will evaluate the park owners' stress-reduction claims and help them understand what consumers want. Silverman (2000) emphasizes that there are variances and contradictions within each analytical approach and its methodological correlates. SAGE and positivists disagree on scientific philosophy. Visit http://www.sagepub.com for SAGE Publications. Methods SAGE 5/10 Research Methods SAGE Qualitative research: Many builders agree. The two analytical frameworks are complementary, not opposing (Silverman 2000). Table 1 compares positivism and constructionism. 1. Q&Q approaches Positivism and constructionism affect sociological study methodology. The qualitative/quantitative sociology dispute has roots in the foregoing analytical contrasts. Quantitative research uses statistical tools to portray human experience numerically. Qualitative research describes and analyzes the human experience's quality. Practice and theory overlap, though. These methods are not opposites. Quantitative and qualitative approaches aren't disciplinary or moral absolutes, just like positivism/constructionism. Some researchers use'mixed approaches' (Creswell 2003), combining qualitative and quantitative techniques. TABLE 1.1 Positive and constructive points of attention Both methods have similarities. First, they're both based on fact. Despite methodological and theoretical disagreements, qualitative and quantitative researchers agree that social research should be based on real-world encounters, interviews, records, or observations. Where philosophers may question the world's existence, sociologists embrace a reality worth investigating. Sociologists believe the scientific study of society should be logical and consistent. This means qualitative or quantitative social research requires scientific rigor, or systematic adherence to rules and processes. As Silverman notes, we must choose balance, intellectual breadth, and rigor, not extreme opposites. Quantification shouldn't be avoided if utilized sensibly and appropriately. (1985: 17). Utilitarians also attack the quantitative/qualitative dichotomy. Using what works might replace ideological or philosophical commitment to a certain approach. Choosing a research method isn't about deciding right from wrong or truth from falsehood; rather, it's about selecting a strategy that fits the task. SAGE, says a researcher, Visit http://www.sagepub.com for SAGE Publications. Methods SAGE 6/10 Research Methods SAGE Qualitative research: We don't have to choose between words and numbers or exact and imprecise data, but between more and less precise data. ... [O]ur decisions... should depend on what we're describing, the correctness of our descriptions, our aims, and our resources, not on ideological devotion to one scientific paradigm or another. Silverman 2000:12 cites Hammersley 1992:163. One need not be dedicated to research methods any more than to a screwdriver over a hammer. If we want to compare male and female suicide rates, we should utilize numbers. In the UK, for example, the suicide rate in 1996 was over three times higher for men than for women—11 per 100,000 men vs 3 for women (Schmidtke et al. 1999: 84). If the inquiry is how men and women emotionally respond to a loved one's suicide, it may be more feasible to collect descriptive data about the grieving person's experience. Next, we compare qualitative and quantitative research designs. Design differences Research design is the process researchers use to complete a study. These include asking a theoretically-based research topic, selecting respondents, and analyzing data. • outcomes reporting All social science study includes these processes, but their sequence and interconnectedness vary from qualitative to quantitative investigations. Research begins with participant selection. Quantitative researchers must select respondents randomly for statistical analysis. Sampling is the selection of individuals or objects from a population. Small sample sizes increase the likelihood of skewed conclusions or mistake, therefore statistical analysis requires large, representative samples. In qualitative research, inclusion is based more on theory than on technological constraints. Purposive sampling in qualitative research means the selection process is determined by the project's theoretical aim, not a rigorous methodological mandate. When researching drug dealers, random selection may be impractical and a purposive sample may be the only alternative. How data is recorded differs between quantitative and qualitative research. Most numerical researchers use surveys to quantify their observations. My survey experience comes from a study of juveniles charged with adult crimes (Frazier et al. 1999). We wanted to determine what causes legal authorities to refer a juvenile for adult court procedure. Our data came from official, statistical sources and court and police descriptions of the crime and offender's history. Except for age, all court and police records were descriptive. For statistical analysis, I was given a nearly 1000-item survey. My task was to read and code official records. If a minor offender used a gun, that would be marked as 1, a baseball bat as 2, etc. No matter how inclusive the survey, many case information didn't match a pre-coded, standardized structure. We might have trouble recording a case where the criminal beat his victim with a bat and then shot him. Should this be a '1' or '2'? We could have added additional variables to the survey, but SAGE made it difficult. Visit http://www.sagepub.com for SAGE Publications. Methods SAGE 7/10 What is qualitative research? The 10-page survey was laborious and time-consuming to complete. We supplemented the form with a qualitative narrative to capture all the case's specifics and subtleties. Most qualitative researchers record data this way. Their data is case-description-based, not numerical. (Chapter 5 discusses how content analysis quantifies descriptive data.) The third difference is data analysis. Quantitative sociologists use statistical analysis to portray study findings. This formulaic method, which sociologists and laymen often misunderstand, claims a growing body of processes. Statistics can be descriptive or univariate (one variable at a time), bivariate (two variables) or multivariate (testing relationships among several variables). Variable types (numerical or categorical) and sample methods affect statistical analysis. The topic has been the basis of many hated undergraduate and graduate statistics courses. Descriptive data analysis is less formal. While data analysis processes differ per qualitative research branch, there are similar themes. Qualitative researchers are more aware of the role social or cultural background plays in creating a research topic, collecting data, and writing and reporting findings (Bamberger 1999). For quantitative researchers, context is interference or noise (a set of intervening variables to regulate), whereas for qualitative researchers, context determines what is reported. Quantitative and qualitative methodologies see social theory differently. Quantitative researchers separate theory and methodology. (Exceptions exist.) Multiple regression equations are based on sophisticated theoretical models.) Quantitative researchers introduce theory in the beginning of their report to define the project's rationale and return to it at the end to discuss policy implications. Theoretical challenges in data gathering and processing are statistical and measurement issues. A quantitative study of racial discrimination would first analyze the issue's definition. Should racial discrimination be characterized from the victims', aggressors', or researchers' perspectives? Should it be broad or narrow?). Once quantitative researchers agree on a definition, measurement and analysis begin with little consideration on the project's definitional challenges. Random samples are selected, data is collected, and statistical techniques are applied to show the frequency and intensity of racial discrimination according to predetermined criteria. At the end of the project, the investigators may return to their original conceptualization of the problem to propose new hypotheses (educated guesses) or to explain why the findings did or did not support the original expectations. This strategy is not typical of qualitative research (Babbie 2002: 36–38). Qualitative research emphasizes the give-and-take between social theory and methodologies. Most qualitative researchers don't separate how and what they collect. A qualitative study, like a quantitative one, might begin with considering the topic's meaning, but it wouldn't stop there. SAGE Visit http://www.sagepub.com for SAGE Publications. Methods SAGE 8/10 What is qualitative research? Fixed definitions end the hunt for meaning. Instead, the investigation would focus on the phenomenon's fluid and interactive aspect. Some researchers consider situational variance in racial prejudice a separate conclusion. In this way, qualitative research may be more rigorous than quantitative. Table 1.2 compares quantitative and qualitative approaches. Comparing qualitative and quantitative methodologies This book focuses on qualitative sociology methodologies. 2–4 introduce interviews, ethnography, and visual analysis. Chapter 5 analyzes qualitative data. Writing qualitative research reports is covered in Chapter 6. Research ethics is the final chapter. SYNOPSIS This chapter began with a broad discussion of research and explained how sociology informs research issues and procedures. The chapter compared positivism and constructionism to qualitative and quantitative sociological methods. This chapter outlines the theoretical foundations of qualitative and quantitative research perspectives. Quantitative sociology emphasizes technical rigor (research mechanics) and qualitative sociology conceptual rigor (systematic adherence to the theory of doing research). Academic books, like daily life, contain oppositions that are useful for learning the basics. With additional information and experience, you'll likely move beyond simple dichotomies. Many sociologists use both methods, depending on the topic and other factors. Knowing the opposition is wise. Criticizing what one doesn't completely understand and embracing the opposing opinion without serious consideration are at best needless and at worst embarrassingly unlearned. Before committing to a field, learn it well. As one learns more about opposing sides of an issue, the lines blur. Positivism and constructionism aren't philosophical or methodological opponents. They're distinct ways of studying the social world and gaining information. This book explains how qualitative sociology's research approaches attain this purpose.
